README.md, before:

# yodiwo-crownstone-node

Crownstone Python node for the [Yodiwo platform](https://www.yodiwo.com/).

To use this node, we expect the [Crownstone USB dongle](https://shop.crownstone.rocks/products/crownstone-usb-dongle) is connected to the device running the Crownstone Python node.

## Hardware preparation

On the Cyient gateway, you will need the proper kernel drivers, update the module dependencies, and modprobe the module.

    sudo cp usbserial.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/serial
    sudo cp cp201x.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/serial
    sudo depmod -a
    sudo modprobe cp201x

This should not lead to errors. If this works, edit `/etc/modules` and add `cp201x` on one of the lines.

If you now plug-in the Crownstone USB dongle, you should see a device node in the `/dev` directory, for example `/dev/ttyUSB0`.

## Software Prerequisites 

This node is written in Python 3 and requires Python 3.5 or higher. For the installation process `setuptools` is required.

```
sudo apt install python3 python3-setuptools
```

You will then need a configuration file. There is a template provided in the `./conf` folder.

## Software Configuration

Copy template and open it a text editor:

```
cd conf
cp yodiwo-crownstone.conf.default yodiwo-crownstone.conf
```

### Crownstone network configuration

Adjust the crownstoneUser field in `yodiwo-crownstone.conf`.

```
"crownstoneUser":{
    "email":"",
    "password":"",
    "sha1Password":"",
    "accessToken":"",
    "sphereId":"",
    "sphereName":""
}
```

There are a few required fields in this config for the `crownstoneUser`. 

1. You can either (only one of these required) specify:
- an `accessToken`;
- an `email` address and `password` (the ones which are used for the [Crownstone service](https://my.crownstone.rocks));
- an `email` address and a `sha1` hash of your password (for example `abcde` is hashed to `03de6c570bfe24bfc328ccd7ca46b76eadaf4334`).

2. For the sphere part (`sphereId`, `sphereName`) you have to specify (only one of these are required):
- a `SphereId` (which you can look up in the Crownstone Cloud);
- or just the `name` of your Sphere (which you can look up in the Crownstone app).

### Crownstone hardware configuration

The Bluenet part:

```
"bluenet":{
    "usbPort":"/dev/ttyUSB0"
}
```

This specifies on which port the user can find the Crownstone USB dongle. For more information on this, take a look at the [bluenet lib](https://github.com/crownstone/bluenet-python-lib).

### Yodiwo configuration

Finally, the Yodiwo part:

```
"yodiwoUser":{
    "ActiveID": "dev4cyan",
    "Configs": {
        "dev4cyan": {
        "NodeKey": " ",
        "NodeName": "PyNode",
        "NodeSecret": "",
        "MqttBrokerCertFile": null,
        "MqttBrokerHostname": "dev4cyan.yodiwo.com",
        "MqttUseSsl": true
        }
    }
}
```

This is explained over at the [Yodiwo python agent](https://github.com/crownstone/yodiwo-python-node).

## Software Installation

```
cd scripts
sudo ./install
```

You can test with `./run` in the `scripts` directory.

## Operating System Optimization 

In your deployment setup you likely want to limit the log files, so they can't suddenly spin out of control if a process decides to spit out a huge amount of information:

    sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d
    sudo vim /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/size.conf

Make sure the file has the following content:

    [Journal]
    SystemMaxUse=250M
    SystemMaxFileSize=50M

If there is too much information shown on Debug levels you can limit the logs to the Warning level:

    sudo vim /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/level.conf

And contents:

    [Journal]
    # not save all levels but only 0 to 4
    MaxLevelStore=warning

# Copyright

For information about licensing and copyright, contact Crownstone (https://crownstone.rocks).

Commit message:

Indicate that the module is not just available in this repos.

README.md, after:

# yodiwo-crownstone-node

Crownstone Python node for the [Yodiwo platform](https://www.yodiwo.com/).

To use this node, we expect the [Crownstone USB dongle](https://shop.crownstone.rocks/products/crownstone-usb-dongle) is connected to the device running the Crownstone Python node.

## Hardware preparation

On the Cyient gateway, you will need the proper kernel modules, update the module dependencies, and modprobe the module.
The kernel modules are not available by default. Ask Cyient or Crownstone for the `cp201x.ko` module in particular.

    sudo cp usbserial.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/serial
    sudo cp cp201x.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/serial
    sudo depmod -a
    sudo modprobe cp201x

This should not lead to errors. If this works, edit `/etc/modules` and add `cp201x` on one of the lines.

If you now plug-in the Crownstone USB dongle, you should see a device node in the `/dev` directory, for example `/dev/ttyUSB0`.

## Software Prerequisites 

This node is written in Python 3 and requires Python 3.5 or higher. For the installation process `setuptools` is required.

```
sudo apt install python3 python3-setuptools
```

You will then need a configuration file. There is a template provided in the `./conf` folder.

## Software Configuration

Copy template and open it a text editor:

```
cd conf
cp yodiwo-crownstone.conf.default yodiwo-crownstone.conf
```

### Crownstone network configuration

Adjust the crownstoneUser field in `yodiwo-crownstone.conf`.

```
"crownstoneUser":{
    "email":"",
    "password":"",
    "sha1Password":"",
    "accessToken":"",
    "sphereId":"",
    "sphereName":""
}
```

There are a few required fields in this config for the `crownstoneUser`. 

1. You can either (only one of these required) specify:
- an `accessToken`;
- an `email` address and `password` (the ones which are used for the [Crownstone service](https://my.crownstone.rocks));
- an `email` address and a `sha1` hash of your password (for example `abcde` is hashed to `03de6c570bfe24bfc328ccd7ca46b76eadaf4334`).

2. For the sphere part (`sphereId`, `sphereName`) you have to specify (only one of these are required):
- a `SphereId` (which you can look up in the Crownstone Cloud);
- or just the `name` of your Sphere (which you can look up in the Crownstone app).

### Crownstone hardware configuration

The Bluenet part:

```
"bluenet":{
    "usbPort":"/dev/ttyUSB0"
}
```

This specifies on which port the user can find the Crownstone USB dongle. For more information on this, take a look at the [bluenet lib](https://github.com/crownstone/bluenet-python-lib).

### Yodiwo configuration

Finally, the Yodiwo part:

```
"yodiwoUser":{
    "ActiveID": "dev4cyan",
    "Configs": {
        "dev4cyan": {
        "NodeKey": " ",
        "NodeName": "PyNode",
        "NodeSecret": "",
        "MqttBrokerCertFile": null,
        "MqttBrokerHostname": "dev4cyan.yodiwo.com",
        "MqttUseSsl": true
        }
    }
}
```

This is explained over at the [Yodiwo python agent](https://github.com/crownstone/yodiwo-python-node).

## Software Installation

```
cd scripts
sudo ./install
```

You can test with `./run` in the `scripts` directory.

## Operating System Optimization 

In your deployment setup you likely want to limit the log files, so they can't suddenly spin out of control if a process decides to spit out a huge amount of information:

    sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d
    sudo vim /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/size.conf

Make sure the file has the following content:

    [Journal]
    SystemMaxUse=250M
    SystemMaxFileSize=50M

If there is too much information shown on Debug levels you can limit the logs to the Warning level:

    sudo vim /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/level.conf

And contents:

    [Journal]
    # not save all levels but only 0 to 4
    MaxLevelStore=warning

# Copyright

For information about licensing and copyright, contact Crownstone (https://crownstone.rocks).
